# CodeClause_project_name
latest advancement in the field of ai
Artificial Intelligence is currently one of the hottest buzzwords in tech and with good reason. The last few years have seen several innovations and advancements that have previously been solely in the realm of science fiction slowly transform into reality.Artificial Intelligence is a method of making a computer, a computer-controlled robot, or a software think intelligently like the human mind. AI is accomplished by studying the patterns of the human brain and by analyzing the cognitive process. The outcome of these studies develops intelligent software and systems.Artificial Intelligence is a method of making a computer, a computer-controlled robot, or a software think intelligently like the human mind. AI is accomplished by studying the patterns of the human brain and by analyzing the cognitive process. The outcome of these studies develops intelligent software and systems. A brief timeline of the past six decades of how AI evolved from its inception.
1956 - John McCarthy coined the term ‘artificial intelligence’ and had the first AI conference.1969 - Shakey was the first general-purpose mobile robot built. It is now able to do things with a purpose vs. just a list of instructions.1997 - Supercomputer ‘Deep Blue’ was designed, and it defeated the world champion chess player in a match. It was a massive milestone by IBM to create this large computer.2002 - The first commercially successful robotic vacuum cleaner was created. 2005 - 2019 - Today, we have speech recognition, robotic process automation (RPA), a dancing robot, smart homes, and other innovations make their debut.2020 - Baidu releases the LinearFold AI algorithm to medical and scientific and medical teams developing a vaccine during the early stages of the SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) pandemic. The algorithm can predict the RNA sequence of the virus in only 27 seconds, which is 120 times faster than other methods.  The various types of AI:Purely Reactive,
Limited Memory, Theory of Mind, Self-Aware.Ways of Implementing AI :Machine Learning,Deep Learning.
    
          LATEST ADVANCEMENT IN THE FIELD OF AI:
       
                If you’re a programmer, chances are you’ve started working with GitHub’s Copilot, an AI tool that turns natural language prompts into coding suggestions to expedite programming. If you’re a writer, you might have come across OpenAI’s GPT-3 or similar autoregressive language models that use deep learning to create human-like text. It was just a few years ago such AI programs were in their infancy. Now they are becoming ubiquitous tools in writing and coding.Techniques like deep learning allow us to run complex AI models to solve the most difficult problems. But while those who work in technology-centric careers are aware of AI’s explosive capabilities, the public at large is still largely unaware of the depth of AI’s potential.
CHATBOTS CONTEXTUAL TECHNOLOGY: The technique which is more rational than emotional is contextual technology. Its contextual capacity is still unproven and deals with obfuscation.  The upcoming global contextual chatbots market include Nuance Communications, chatfuel, artificial solutions, Google, acquire.io, AWS, botsify, snatchbot, IBM Corporation, floatboat, boost.ai, chatteron are few of them.
THE RISE OF GRAPHIC DESIGNERS:The Adobe new AI tool called sensei acts as the assistant to create the perfect customer experiences through visual assets. It can only work as the assistant while the ideas are human-based. The researchers are working harder to atone AI visual experiences.
AI IN HEALTHCARE:AI in the healthcare industry is not a cup of tea. Much advancements are coming in the research and development of the treatment, diagnose a disease from CT lung scan, model the protein structure of the SARS- COV-2 virus that comes COVID19. Govt and other org have explored AI and track outbreaks and predict where the future will occur. 
NATURAL LANGUAGE GENERATION:. Natural language generation is a trendy technology that converts structured data into the native language. The machines are programmed with algorithms to convert the data into a desirable format for the user. 
SPEECH REGONITION:Speech recognition is another important subset of artificial intelligence that converts human speech into a useful and understandable format by computers. Speech recognition is a bridge between human and computer interactions. The technology recognizes and converts human speech in several languages. Siri of iPhone is a classic example of speech recognition.
BIOMETRICS:Deep learning is another branch of artificial intelligence that functions based on artificial neural networks. This technique teaches computers and machines to learn by example just the way humans do.
PEER -TO - PEER NETWORKS:The peer-to-peer network helps to connect different systems and computers for data sharing without the data transmitting via a server. Peer-to-peer networks have the ability to solve the most complex problems. This technology is used in cryptocurrencies. The implementation is cost-effective as individual workstations are connected and servers are not installed.
AL OPTIMIZED HARDWARE:As the attention for the software increased, a need for the hardware that supports the software also arise. A conventional chip cannot support artificial intelligence models. A new generation of artificial intelligence chips is being developed for neural networks, deep learning, and computer vision. The AL hardware includes CPUs to handle scalable workloads, special purpose built-in silicon for neural networks, neuromorphic chips, etc. Organizations like Nvidia, and Qualcomm. AMD is creating chips that can perform complex AI calculations. Healthcare and automobile may be the industries that will benefit from these chips.
MACHINE LEARNING FOR NATURE CONSERVATION:Oxford university has used artificial intelligence’s latest developments to develop new software that can recognize and trace the faces of endangered species like chimpanzees individually in their natural habitats.
AI ADVANCING TOWARDS HIGH LEVEL HUMAN FUNCTIONS:Using tools to achieve certain objectives and goals is long considered only human behavior. With the exception of a few other animal species, such as chimpanzees and corvids.
